Mac-Flooding attack simulation
#This was done over a virtual switch to test over a few different security types.
#The first is the MAC-flooding attack by having an “attacker” program where the “attacker” is sending ethernet frames in mass quantities, each with a different spoofed MAC address. This will cause heavy memory consumption and push out legitimate users from the MAC tables in the switch. The switch is unable to deliver incoming data to the destination so the switch enters a fail-open mode making it behave like a network hub*. The “attacker” is then able to steal sensitive information from the victim machine and other computers on the same network by listening to the packets intended for other hosts. This is usually done with a packet analyzer to capture that sensitive data.

#The second form of attack is a subtler one: the “attacker” program instead sends only one or a small number of falsified MAC addresses. This is harder to detect, and can bypass several security measures that block floods. Unlike the first attack, this requires knowing the MAC addresses of other hosts on the network who are likely to have valuable data sent to them. These are the MAC addresses that are spoofed, allowing the “attacker” to receive all packets intended for them until their own sent packets change the switch’s destination for that MAC back to the correct location. As it is likely they will send packets often, the “attacker” will need to continually send their own packets to receive any sensitive data. If communication occurs over a TCP connection, then it’s likely the packets the “attacker” intercepts will be resent and still be delivered, only on a delay, making this attack harder to detect.

#The third form of attack is called the CAM Overflow attack. CAM means Content Addressable Memory. CAM Table Overflow is a Layer 2 attack on a switch.A switch’s CAM table contains network information; available MAC address on switch ports and connected VLAN parameters). CAM Table Overflows occur when an influx of MAC addresses are flooded into the table and the CAM table threshold is reached. This attack is very similar to the first method of attack.
